Maran Bashar is Al jazer senior
political analyst he joins us now by
Skype from London are the discussions
moving into a different
phase yeah you could say that I think
the United States um bridging proposals
turned out to be more of a betrayal
proposals betrayal of their own role as
mediators not that they have been uh
honest Brokers by any measure but they
had to maintain some uh some form of
appearance of
objectivity of neutrality some form of
it so that the process would be credible
so that they can get away with whatever
they could get away with but at this
point in time watching blinking do what
blinking does best is appease Israel
walk in its footsteps defend it justify
it now he's calling netanyahu's
so-called red lines or a version of them
bridging there's nothing bridging about
that I've never seen something of a gap
uh getting bigger than under
blink I suppose Hamas now finds itself
yet again in the position of accusing
Israel and particularly Netanyahu of not
being serious about a deal while at the
same time not wanting to be blamed for
the failure of these
talks absolutely that's why it finds
itself once again uh being cornered uh
it's once again being trapped and it's
mostly because of the United States
because we know where Israel has been
throughout this process they are against
the ceasefire they're against the
permanent ceasefire but the United
States kept polishing the Israeli
position and and revering the Israeli
position so that it will be acceptable
uh somehow passable especially through
you know Egypt andq and so on so forth
and every
time the Hamas the Palestinians made
concessions accepted
another American
dictat is the Israelis added new
conditions to it and forcing the
Palestinians to accept yet more
concessions but at this point in time
after so many concessions been done you
know the whole point of a ceas fire is
no longer there now we're really talking
about a pause whereby Israel's captives
are released and Israel's resumes the
war whenever or uh as it wishes this is
this is a terrible terrible development
for those who you know at least wanted
to see this and and believe me I'm a
very realist person in in foreign
relations and I can see that diplomacy
is the continuation of War by other
means I mean I understand very well that
Israel and the United States think that
they won this war and that they have to
impose their dictat but I also
understand there was a genocide the past
10 months and that that the only way you
can deal with genocide 10 months later
is to give people a break not 5 months
break but just to give them a damn break
to let them reconstruct their lives to
let them live in peace for whatever time
but not just to keep uh trapping them
again and again in order to rec carry
the genocide that that they've been
carrying in a region that is so qualify
and speaking of the region Maran how
would a stalemate in the negotiation or
a collapse in these talks affect Iran
and hezbollah's calculations does it
make an attack more likely particularly
ahead of
November absolutely absolutely I mean
because they've committed to it not
because I think so I mean they've really
committed to it and uh some unknown
spokesperson said if there is a ceas
fire or there's real talks for a
ceasefire well it's going to be hard for
us to hit so probably this thing will be
postponed perhaps indefinitely but if
this is all turned out to be one big
betrayal not bridging and if it's all
one big trap uh for the Palestinians and
for Iran and Hezbollah well then
something got to give eventually and
believe me I mean I don't know what Iran
is capable or not capable of what is
willing to do what it's not willing to
do how much it's ready to go out there
and risk its own National Security I
don't know right or the same goes for
Hezbollah and Lebanon but wherever can
hit Israel and the United States now in
terms of their credibility in terms of
their arrogance in terms of their uh uh
stuck upness you know I think everyone
is just going to be drooling in pleasure
over it because the way they've been
handling this genocide the way they've
been underlining the way they've been
covering up for each other it makes any
attack it makes any explosion any
implosion it makes any Outburst to be
almost forgiven able although I and
countless other people like you and so
on so forth we all just want peace and
security we would want some stability we
want some Freedom we want the end of
genocide a real permanent ceasefire but
if they keep playing these game these
very very Reckless and dangerous games
and if Lincoln keeps covering up for
Israel you know the way he does with
with such you
know well I know some words should not
be used but be that as it may this could
lead to
some serious consequences if not today
later on okay well thank you very much
Al jaer senior political analyst Maran
bashara make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler